He was the third ruler of the Nineteenth Dynasty.
他是第十九王朝的第三位統治者。

Along with Thutmose III of the Eighteenth Dynasty, he is often regarded as the greatest, most celebrated, and most powerful pharaoh of the New Kingdom, which itself was the most powerful period of ancient Egypt.
他與第十八王朝的圖特摩斯三世一起，常被認為是新王國時期最偉大、最著名和最強大的法老，而新王國本身是古埃及最強大的時期。

In ancient Greek sources, he is called Ozymandias,[c][9] derived from the first part of his Egyptian-language regnal name: Usermaatre Setepenre.[d][10]
在古希臘的文獻中，他被稱為奧西曼迪亞斯[c][9]，這個名字源於他的埃及語統治名：烏塞爾瑪特勒·塞特佩涅爾[e][10]。

Ramesses was also referred to as the "Great Ancestor" by successor pharaohs and the Egyptian people.
拉美西斯也被繼任的法老和埃及人稱為“偉大的祖先”。

For the early part of his reign, he focused on building cities, temples, and monuments.
在他統治的早期，他專注於建設城市、寺廟和紀念碑。

After establishing the city of Pi-Ramesses in the Nile Delta, he designated it as Egypt's new capital and used it as the main staging point for his campaigns in Syria.
在尼羅河三角洲建立皮拉美西斯城之後，他將其指定為埃及的新首都，並將其用作在敘利亞進行戰役的主要集結點。

Ramesses led several military expeditions into the Levant, where he reasserted Egyptian control over Canaan and Phoenicia; he also led a number of expeditions into Nubia, all commemorated in inscriptions at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein.
拉美西斯領導了多次軍事遠征進入黎凡特地區，在那裡他重新確立了埃及對迦南和腓尼基的控制；他還領導了多次對努比亞的遠征，這些都在貝特·艾爾瓦利和蓋爾夫·侯賽因的碑銘中得到紀念。

He celebrated an unprecedented thirteen or fourteen Sed festivals — more than any other pharaoh.[11]
他舉辦了前所未有的十三或十四次賽德節慶典，比任何其他法老都多[11]。

Estimates of his age at death vary, though 90 or 91 is considered to be the most likely figure.[12][13]
關於他去世時的年齡估計各不相同，但90或91歲被認為是最有可能的數字[12][13]。

Upon his death, he was buried in a tomb (KV7) in the Valley of the Kings;[14] his body was later moved to the Royal Cache, where it was discovered by archaeologists in 1881.
他去世後，被埋葬在國王谷的一座墳墓（KV7）中[14]；他的遺體後來被轉移到皇家墓穴，該墓穴在1881年被考古學家發現。

Ramesses' mummy is now on display at the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization, located in the city of Cairo.[15]
拉美西斯的木乃伊現展示在位於開羅市的埃及文明國家博物館中[15]。

At age fourteen, he was appointed as Egypt's prince regent by his father, Seti I.
在十四歲時，他被他的父親塞蒂一世任命為埃及的摄政王。

Today, most Egyptologists believe that Ramesses formally assumed the throne on 31 May 1279 BC, based on his known accession date: III Season of the Harvest, day 27.
如今，大多數埃及學家相信，根據已知的登基日期：收穫季的第三季，第27天，拉美西斯正式登上王位的日期是公元前1279年5月31日。

Early in his life, Ramesses II embarked on numerous campaigns to restore possession of previously held territories lost to the Nubians and Hittites and to secure Egypt's borders.
在拉美西斯二世生命早期，他展開了眾多戰役，以恢復先前失去給努比亞人和赫梯人的領土，並保護埃及的邊境。

He was also responsible for suppressing some Nubian revolts and carrying out a campaign in Libya.
他還負責鎮壓一些努比亞人的起義，並在利比亞進行戰役。

Though the Battle of Kadesh often dominates the scholarly view of Ramesses II's military prowess and power, he nevertheless enjoyed more than a few outright victories over Egypt's enemies.
儘管卡迪什之戰通常主宰了學者對拉美西斯二世軍事才能和權力的觀點，他仍然取得了一些對埃及敵人的彻底勝利。

During his reign, the Egyptian army is estimated to have totaled some 100,000 men: a formidable force that he used to strengthen Egyptian influence.
在他的統治期間，埃及軍隊的人數估計總共約有10萬人，這是一支強大的力量，他用來加強埃及的影響力。

In his second year, Ramesses II decisively defeated the Sherden sea pirates who were wreaking havoc along Egypt's Mediterranean coast by attacking cargo-laden vessels travelling the sea routes to Egypt.
在他統治的第二年，拉美西斯二世決定性地擊敗了希爾登海盜，這些海盜在埃及地中海沿岸肆虐，襲擊載滿貨物的船隻，將它們用作前往埃及的航路。

The Sherden people probably came from the coast of Ionia, from southwest Anatolia or perhaps, also from the island of Sardinia.
希爾登人可能來自小亞細亞西南部的伊奧尼亞海岸，或者也可能來自撒丁島。

Ramesses posted troops and ships at strategic points along the coast and patiently allowed the pirates to attack their perceived prey before skillfully catching them by surprise in a sea battle and capturing them all in a single action.
拉美西斯在沿岸的戰略點部署了軍隊和船隻，耐心地讓海盜襲擊他們認為易攻擊的目標，然後在一場海戰中巧妙地突襲他們，一舉俘虜了所有的海盜。

A stele from Tanis speaks of their having come "in their war-ships from the midst of the sea, and none were able to stand before them".
塔尼斯的一塊石碑提到他們“從大海中帶著戰艦來，沒有人能夠抵擋他們”。

There probably was a naval battle somewhere near the mouth of the Nile, as shortly afterward, many Sherden are seen among the pharaoh's bodyguard where they are conspicuous by their horned helmets having a ball projecting from the middle, their round shields, and the great Naue II swords with which they are depicted in inscriptions of the Battle of Kadesh.
可能在尼羅河口附近發生了一場海戰，因為不久之後，在法老的親衛隊中可以看到許多希爾登人，他們以他們帶有從中央射出的球的有角頭盔、圓形盾牌以及在卡迪什之戰的碑文中所描繪的Naue II大劍而顯得引人注目。

In that sea battle, together with the Sherden, the pharaoh also defeated the Lukka (L'kkw, possibly the people later known as the Lycians), and the Šqrsšw (Shekelesh) peoples.
在那場海戰中，拉美西斯二世與希爾登人一起，還擊敗了魯卡人（L'kkw，可能是後來被稱為利基亞人的人民）和夏克勒什人（Šqrsšw）。

The immediate antecedents to the Battle of Kadesh were the early campaigns of Ramesses II into Canaan.
卡迪什之戰的直接前兆是拉美西斯二世早期對迦南地區的戰役。

His first campaign seems to have taken place in the fourth year of his reign and was commemorated by the erection of what became the first of the Commemorative stelae of Nahr el-Kalb near what is now Beirut.
他的第一次戰役似乎發生在他統治的第四年，並以興建紀念碑的方式紀念，該紀念碑位於今天的貝魯特附近的納赫爾卡爾布。

The inscription is almost totally illegible due to weathering.
由於風化，銘文幾乎完全無法辨認。

In the fourth year of his reign, he captured the Hittite vassal state of the Amurru during his campaign in Syria.[24]
在他統治的第四年，他在敘利亞的戰役中佔領了赫梯的附庸國阿穆魯。[24]

The Battle of Kadesh in his fifth regnal year was the climactic engagement in a campaign that Ramesses fought in Syria, against the resurgent Hittite forces of Muwatallis.
卡迪什之戰發生在拉美西斯二世統治第五年的一場戰役中，他在敘利亞對抗再度崛起的赫梯軍隊，對手是穆瓦塔利的部隊。

The pharaoh wanted a victory at Kadesh both to expand Egypt's frontiers into Syria and to emulate his father Seti I's triumphal entry into the city just a decade or so earlier.
法老希望在卡迪什取得勝利，既是為了將埃及的邊界擴展到敘利亞，也是為了效仿他的父親塞蒂一世十年前的凱旋入城。

He also constructed his new capital, Pi-Ramesses. There he built factories to manufacture weapons, chariots, and shields, supposedly producing some 1,000 weapons in a week, about 250 chariots in two weeks, and 1,000 shields in a week and a half.
他還建造了他的新首都皮拉美西斯。在那裡，他建造了工廠生產武器、戰車和盾牌，據說一周內可以生產約1,000件武器，兩周內約250輛戰車，以及一周半內1,000個盾牌。

After these preparations, Ramesses moved to attack territory in the Levant, which belonged to a more substantial enemy than any he had ever faced in war: the Hittite Empire.
在這些準備之後，拉美西斯前往攻擊黎凡特地區的領土，這個地區屬於一個比他在戰爭中曾經面對過的任何敵人都更強大的對手：赫梯帝國。

Ramesses's forces were caught in a Hittite ambush and outnumbered at Kadesh when they counterattacked and routed the Hittites, whose survivors abandoned their chariots and swam the Orontes river to reach the safe city walls.[citation needed] Ramesses, logistically unable to sustain a long siege, returned to Egypt.
拉美西斯的軍隊在卡迪什遭到赫梯人的伏擊，並在人數上處於劣勢，但他們發起反擊並擊潰了赫梯人，倖存者放棄了他們的戰車，游過奧龍特斯河到達安全的城牆。[需要引證]拉美西斯在物資後勤上無法支撐長時間的圍困，因此返回埃及。

Egypt's sphere of influence was now restricted to Canaan while Syria fell into Hittite hands. Canaanite princes, seemingly encouraged by the Egyptian incapacity to impose their will and goaded on by the Hittites, began revolts against Egypt.
在這段時間內，埃及的影響力僅限於迦南地區，而敘利亞則落入赫梯人的控制之下。受到埃及無法強力干預並受到赫梯人挑釁的影響，迦南的王子們開始對埃及進行起義。

In the seventh year of his reign, Ramesses II returned to Syria once again. This time he proved more successful against his Hittite foes.
在拉美西斯二世統治第七年，他再次返回敘利亞。這一次他對他的赫梯敵人取得了更大的成功。

During this campaign, he split his army into two forces. One force was led by his son, Amun-her-khepeshef, and it chased warriors of the Šhasu tribes across the Negev as far as the Dead Sea, capturing Edom-Seir. It then marched on to capture Moab. The other force, led by Ramesses, attacked Jerusalem and Jericho. He, too, then entered Moab, where he rejoined his son.
在這次戰役中，他將軍隊分成兩支部隊。其中一支由他的兒子阿蒙-赫赫佩舍夫率領，追逐著沿尼格布的薩修部落的戰士，一直到死海，並佔領埃東西爾。然後他們繼續前進，佔領摩押。另一支由拉美西斯領導的部隊則進攻了耶路撒冷和耶利哥。然後他也進入了摩押，與他的兒子重聚。

The reunited army then marched on Hesbon, Damascus, on to Kumidi, and finally recaptured Upi (the land around Damascus), reestablishing Egypt's former sphere of influence.
隨後，重新結合的軍隊向赫斯朋、大馬士革進發，然後到達庫米迪，最後重新佔領了厄比（大馬士革周圍的土地），重建了埃及以前的影響力範圍。

Ramesses extended his military successes in his eighth and ninth years. He crossed the Dog River (Nahr al-Kalb) and pushed north into Amurru. His armies managed to march as far north as Dapur, where he had a statue of himself erected.
在拉美西斯二世統治的第八年和第九年，他延續了他的軍事成功。他越過了狗河（納赫爾卡爾布）並向北進攻阿穆爾魯地區。他的軍隊成功地北上到達達普爾，在那裡他豎立了一尊自己的雕像。

The Egyptian pharaoh found himself in northern Amurru, well past Kadesh, in Tunip, where no Egyptian soldier had been seen since the time of Thutmose III, almost 120 years earlier. He laid siege to the city before capturing it.
埃及法老發現自己在阿穆爾魯的北部，已經超過了卡迪什，到達了圖尼普，在那裡自從120年前的圖特摩斯三世時代以來，沒有見過埃及士兵。他圍困了這座城市，然後佔領了它。

However, his victory proved to be ephemeral as within a year, the territories he had conquered returned to the Hittite fold. In his tenth year, Ramesses marched against Dapur once more. This time, he claimed to have fought the battle without even bothering to put on his armor until two hours after the fighting began.
然而，他的勝利被證明是短暫的，因為在一年內，他征服的領土又回到了赫梯人的控制之下。在他統治的第十年，拉美西斯再次對達普爾發動了進攻。這一次，他聲稱在戰鬥開始兩個小時後才穿上盔甲。

Ramesses's youthful sons, still wearing their side locks, took part in this conquest. He also captured towns in Retjenu and Tunip in Naharin, which were later recorded on the walls of the Ramesseum.
拉美西斯的年輕兒子們，仍然留著側邊髮辮，參與了這次征服。他還佔領了勒特納和納哈林的城鎮，這些事蹟後來被記錄在拉美西斯紀念殿的壁畫上。

However, this second success was equally meaningless as neither power could decisively defeat the other in battle.
然而，這次的第二次勝利同樣毫無意義，因為雙方都無法在戰鬥中決定性地擊敗對方。

The deposed Hittite king, Mursili III, fled to Egypt, the land of his country's enemy, after the failure of his plots to oust his uncle from the throne.
被废黜的赫梯国王穆尔西里三世在阴谋未能推翻叔叔登上王位后，逃往埃及，即其国家的敌对之地。

Ḫattušili III responded by demanding that Ramesses II extradite his nephew back to Hatti. [35]
赫梯国王哈图什利三世回应道，要求拉美西斯二世将他的侄子引渡回赫梯。[35]

This demand precipitated a crisis in relations between Egypt and Hatti when Ramesses denied any knowledge of Mursili's whereabouts in his country, and the two empires came dangerously close to war.
这一要求在埃及和赫梯之间引发了危机，拉美西斯否认了在他国家中对穆尔西里的行踪的任何了解，两个帝国险些爆发战争。

Eventually, in the twenty-first year of his reign (1258 BC), Ramesses decided to conclude an agreement with the new Hittite king, Ḫattušili III, at Kadesh to end the conflict.
最终，在他统治的第二十一年（公元前1258年），拉美西斯决定与新的赫梯国王哈图什利三世在卡德士达成协议，以结束冲突。

The ensuing document is the earliest known peace treaty in world history. [28]
随后产生的文件是世界历史上已知的最早的和平条约。[28]

The peace treaty was recorded in two versions, one in Egyptian hieroglyphs, the other in Hittite, using cuneiform script; both versions survive.
和平条约以两种版本记录下来，一种是用埃及象形文字书写的，另一种是用赫梯文，使用楔形文字书写的；这两个版本都保存下来了。

Such dual-language recording is common to many subsequent treaties.
这种双语记录在许多后来的条约中很常见。

This treaty differs from others, in that the two language versions are worded differently. While the majority of the text is identical, the Hittite version says the Egyptians came suing for peace and the Egyptian version says the reverse. [36]
这个条约与其他条约不同之处在于，两个语言版本的措辞不同。虽然大部分内容是相同的，赫梯版本说埃及人是来讨和的，而埃及版本则相反。[36]

The treaty was given to the Egyptians in the form of a silver plaque, and this "pocket-book" version was taken back to Egypt and carved into the temple at Karnak.
条约以银质牌匾的形式交给了埃及人，这个“口袋书”版本被带回埃及，并被刻在卡纳克神庙上。

The treaty was concluded between Ramesses II and Ḫattušili III in year 21 of Ramesses's reign (c. 1258 BC). [37]
条约是在拉美西斯二世统治的第21年（约公元前1258年）由拉美西斯二世和哈图什利三世达成的。[37]

Its 18 articles call for peace between Egypt and Hatti and then proceeds to maintain that their respective deities also demand peace.
其中的18条款呼吁埃及和赫梯之间实现和平，并继续维护他们各自的神明也要求和平。

The frontiers are not laid down in this treaty, but may be inferred from other documents.
这份条约并没有规定边界，但可以从其他文件中推断出来。

The Anastasy A papyrus describes Canaan during the latter part of the reign of Ramesses II and enumerates and names the Phoenician coastal towns under Egyptian control.
安纳斯塔西A纸草描述了拉美西斯二世统治晚期的迦南，并列举并命名了处于埃及控制下的腓尼基沿海城镇。

The harbour town of Sumur, north of Byblos, is mentioned as the northernmost town belonging to Egypt, suggesting it contained an Egyptian garrison. [38]
拜卜里斯北部的港口城镇苏穆尔被提及为埃及最北部的城镇，暗示其中可能驻扎着埃及军队。[38]

No further Egyptian campaigns in Canaan are mentioned after the conclusion of the peace treaty.
在和平条约达成后，并未提及埃及在迦南进行进一步的战役。

The northern border seems to have been safe and quiet, so the rule of the pharaoh was strong until Ramesses II's death, and the waning of the dynasty. [39]
北部边界似乎是安全而平静的，因此法老的统治在拉美西斯二世去世之前一直很强大，而世系开始衰落。[39]

When the King of Mira attempted to involve Ramesses in a hostile act against the Hittites, the Egyptian responded that the times of intrigue in support of Mursili III had passed.
当米拉国王试图让拉美西斯参与针对赫梯的敌对行动时，埃及人回应说支持穆尔西里三世的阴谋时代已经过去了。

Ḫattušili III wrote to Kadashman-Enlil II, Kassite king of Karduniaš (Babylon) in the same spirit, reminding him of the time when his father, Kadashman-Turgu, had offered to fight Ramesses II, the king of Egypt.
哈图什利三世以同样的精神给迦士提王国（巴比伦）的卡达什曼-恩利尔二世写信，提醒他他的父亲卡达什曼-图尔古曾主动向埃及国王拉美西斯二世提出战斗。

The Hittite king encouraged the Babylonian to oppose another enemy, which must have been the king of Assyria, whose allies had killed the messenger of the Egyptian king.
赫梯国王鼓励巴比伦人反抗另一个敌人，这个敌人可能是亚述国王，他的盟友曾杀害过埃及国王的使者。

Ḫattušili encouraged Kadashman-Enlil to come to his aid and prevent the Assyrians from cutting the link between the Canaanite province of Egypt and Mursili III, the ally of Ramesses.
哈图什利鼓励卡达什曼-恩利尔前来援助，阻止亚述人切断埃及的迦南省与拉美西斯的盟友穆尔西里三世之间的联系。

Ramesses II also campaigned south of the first cataract of the Nile into Nubia.
拉美西斯二世还进行了尼罗河第一级瀑布以南进军努比亚的战役。

When Ramesses was about 22, two of his own sons, including Amun-her-khepeshef, accompanied him in at least one of those campaigns.
当拉美西斯约22岁时，他的两个儿子，包括阿蒙赫尔凯普舍夫，在至少一次战役中陪同他。

By the time of Ramesses, Nubia had been a colony for 200 years, but its conquest was recalled in decoration from the temples Ramesses II built at Beit el-Wali (which was the subject of epigraphic work by the Oriental Institute during the Nubian salvage campaign of the 1960s), Gerf Hussein and Kalabsha in northern Nubia.
在拉美西斯的时代，努比亚已经成为殖民地200年，但其征服的事迹通过拉美西斯二世在贝特尔瓦利、格尔夫·胡塞因和卡拉布沙等努比亚北部建造的神庙装饰中得以回忆（这些装饰是在20世纪60年代努比亚救援运动期间由东方学院进行铭文工作的对象）。

On the south wall of the Beit el-Wali temple, Ramesses II is depicted charging into battle against tribes south of Egypt in a war chariot, while his two young sons, Amun-her-khepsef and Khaemwaset, are shown behind him, also in war chariots.
在贝特尔瓦利神庙的南墙上，描绘了拉美西斯二世乘坐战车向埃及南部的部落发起冲锋的场景，而他的两个年轻儿子阿蒙赫尔凯普舍夫和卡埃姆瓦塞特则跟随在他身后，同样驾驶着战车。

A wall in one of Ramesses's temples says he had to fight one battle with those tribes without help from his soldiers.
在拉美西斯的一座神庙的墙上写着，他不得不在没有士兵帮助的情况下与那些部落进行一场战斗。

During the reign of Ramesses II, the Egyptians were evidently active on a 300-kilometre (190 mi) stretch along the Mediterranean coast, at least as far as Zawyet Umm El Rakham, where remains of a fortress described by its texts as built on Libyans land have been found. [42]
在拉美西斯二世统治时期，埃及人显然在地中海沿岸的一段长达300公里（190英里）的地区活跃，至少延伸到扎韦特乌姆埃尔拉卡姆，那里发现了一座被文本描述为建在利比亚土地上的堡垒的遗迹。[42]

Although the exact events surrounding the foundation of the coastal forts and fortresses is not clear, some degree of political and military control must have been held over the region to allow their construction.
尽管沿海堡垒的建立具体事件并不清楚，但必须在该地区保持一定程度的政治和军事控制，以便允许它们的建设。

There are no detailed accounts of Ramesses II's undertaking large military actions against the Libyans, only generalised records of his conquering and crushing them, which may or may not refer to specific events that were otherwise unrecorded.
没有详细记录拉美西斯二世对利比亚人进行大规模军事行动的记载，只有他征服和击败他们的一般性记录，可能与未被记录下来的特定事件有关。

It may be that some of the records, such as the Aswan Stele of his year 2, are harking back to Ramesses's presence on his father's Libyan campaigns.
有可能，一些记录，如他第二年的阿斯旺石碑，是在回顾拉美西斯二世参与父亲的利比亚战役。

Perhaps it was Seti I who achieved this supposed control over the region, and who planned to establish the defensive system, in a manner similar to how he rebuilt those to the east, the Ways of Horus across Northern Sinai.
也许是塞蒂一世实现了对该地区的所谓控制，并计划建立防御系统，类似于他重建东部的赫鲁斯之路，横跨西奈半岛北部的方式。



